Add Migration guides to v1.0.0 (#51)
atolab/zenoh-web: content/docs/migration_1.0/Rust.md

---
title: "Rust"
weight : 6200
menu:
  docs:
    parent: migration_1.0
---

## Module Restructure

> We reorganized the module tree, so the path is not the same as before. The main difference is that everything should be imported via the root path `zenoh::`. It makes everything more consistent. Here are some examples, but you can look into `zenoh/src/lib.rs` for more detailed changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We reorganized the module tree, so import paths are not the same as before. The main difference is that everything should be imported via the root path `zenoh::`. Here are some examples, but you can look into `zenoh/src/lib.rs` for the complete list of changes.
```

or `into_result` to take the ownership of the `Sample`.

 `Ok` variant replies, will return `Sample`. 
 `Err` variant replies, will return `ReplyError`

- Zenoh 0.11.x

```rust
while let Ok(reply) = replies.recv_async().await {
    match reply.sample {  // sample should be Result<Sample, Value>
        Ok(sample) => println!(
            ">> Received ('{}': '{}')",
            sample.key_expr.as_str(),
            sample.value,
        ),
        Err(value_err) => println!("{}", String::try_from(&value_err).unwrap()),
    }
}
```

- Zenoh 1.0.0

```rust
while let Ok(reply) = replies.recv_async().await {
    // Difference 1: using result() to get Result<&Sample, &ReplyError>
    match reply.result() {
        Ok(sample) => {
            println!(
                ">> Received ('{}': '{}')",
                sample.key_expr().as_str(),
                // Difference 2: payload() instead of value
                sample.payload().deserialize::<String>().unwrap()
            );
        }
        // Difference 3: ReplyError instead of Value
        Err(err) => {
            println!("{}", err.payload().deserialize::<String>().unwrap());
        }
    }
}
```

> We have also added the ability to get underlying Handlers from `Queryables`, a

Reviewer: It feels like the sentence was cut abruptly

Author: I elaborated a little bit more regarding getting the underlying Handler.

```rust
let subscriber = session
    .declare_subscriber(&key_expr)
    .with(RingChannel::new(size))
    .await
    .unwrap();
```

⚠️ Note:  We **no longer** support **Pull** mode in Zenoh

To get the same behavior of a Zenoh 0.11.0 `PullSubscriber`, please make use of a `RingChannel` an example of this is illustrated in `z_pull.rs`.

## Timestamps

We now tie generating a timestamp to a Zenoh session, with the timestamp inheriting the `ZenohID` of the session.

Note that a Zenoh session will only be able to generate a timestamp if the `timestamping` configuration option is enabled.

- Zenoh 0.11.x

```rust
let timestamp : Timestamp =  zenoh::time::new_reception_timestamp();
```

- Zenoh 1.0.0

```rust
let session: Session = zenoh::open();
// If the `timestamping` configuration is disabled, this call will return `None`.
let timestamp: Option<Timestamp> = session::new_timestamp();
```

This will affect user-created plugins and applications that need to generate timestamps.

## Feature Flags

Removed:

- `complete_n`: due to a Legacy code cleanup

## Storages

<aside>
⚠️ The `storage-manager` will fail to launch if the `timestamping` configuration option is disabled.

> </aside>

Reviewer: Out of curiosity, do we know if the `<aside>` work?

Author: Running locally, aside does not work.
I will remove it in the next commit.
Good spot.
